---
layout: post
title: Advanced Heating Control Schemes
cover-img: blog-projects/assets/img/eccd_cover.png
thumbnail-img: blog-projects/assets/img/eccd_thumbnail.jpg
share-img: blog-projects/assets/img/eccd_thumbnail.jpg
category: projects
---

Electron cyclotron current drive (ECCD) is not only a powerful heating source for tokamaks. By driving current in specific locations within the tokamak, dangerous magnetic islands, which can grow large enough to ultimately destroy the plasma confinement, can be suppressed. On the DIII-D tokamak, we developed several techniques to better allign ECCD with these magnetic islands, allowing for robust control of the instability. 

Notably, application of ECCD has other uses as well, including as a diagnostic to better determine the structure of the magnetic equilibrium. For future machines, where diagnostic availibility will be limited, it will be essential to make the most out of every instrument. Exploring advanced uses for ECCD systems to simultaneously control and diagnose the plasma could open up avenues for synergistic deployment on demonstration devices. 

## Selected puplications on this subject:

**[Experimental evidence of ECCD-based NTM suppression threshold reduction during mode locking on DIII-D](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6587/ab9b3b)** <br />
**Nelson, A. O.,** Logan, N., Choi, W., Strait, E. J. & Kolemen, E., _Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion_ **62**, 094002 (2020).

**[Electron cyclotron emission based q-profile measurement and concept for equilibrium reconstruction](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6587/ab24a4)** <br />
**Nelson, A. O.,** Austin, M. E. & Kolemen, E., _Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion_ **61**, 085013 (2019).

**[Simultaneous detection of neoclassical tearing mode and electron cyclotron current drive locations using electron cyclotron emission in DIII-D](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fusengdes.2019.02.089)** <br />
**Nelson, A. O.,** La Haye, R. J., Austin, M. E., Welander, A. S. & Kolemen, E., _Fusion Engineering and Design_ **141**, 25–29 (2019).
